#QUAKE 4 MOD - Kasper Kolasinski
Welcome to my very scuffed, barely finished Quake 4 Mod.
In this mod, I added an Experience System where every time you kill a monster, you gain 10 XP. The XP bar at the bottom right of the HUD will display your current amount. Once you reach 100 XP, you level up and get 2 skill points. 
You can spend those skill points towards 3 stats: Vitality, Defense, and Agility. If you put a point in Vitality, your max health will increase by 1. If you put a point in Defense, you will take 1% less damage. If you put a point in Agility, you will move 1% faster. 
Because I couldn’t figure out how to make a workable GUI menu to interact with, everything is displayed in the console. I set it up in the config file so that the console opens up with the ‘~’ and not ‘CTRL + ALT + ~’ to make things easier. 
To open up your inventory, press ‘I’ on the keyboard. By going into the console, you will be able to see your Stats and Inventory. Within this makeshift menu, you will be able to see your current amount of XP, your level, and your amount of skill points. You can also see how many points you put into your 3 stats. 
Another big part of the inventory is the consumable system. When killed, enemies have a 50/50 chance of either giving you a piece of silver or a piece of gold. Silver and gold are materials that are used to make consumable items. The 5 consumables that I made were Second Chance, Killheal, Triple Speed, Double Damage, and No Damage. Second Chance costs 1 gold and 1 silver and offers the player a second chance at life. If your health happens to reach 0, you will not die but rather get 50 health back and can continue playing. Once the consumable is used, you will always have the Second Chance ability until you come to near death. Killheal costs 1 gold and 2 silver and is a time-based consumable. As soon as you use it, for the next 1 minute, every monster you kill will heal you 10 health back. Triple Speed costs 2 gold and 1 silver and is a time based consumable. When you use it, for the next 30 seconds, you will move 3 times faster. Double Damage costs 2 gold and 2 silver and is a time based consumable. Once you use it, for the next 1 minute, you will deal double damage. No Damage costs 2 gold and 3 silver and is also a time based consumable. Once you use it, for the next 30 seconds, you will take no damage whatsoever from any threat. 
From here things get very complicated without a menu to work with and the fact that I only understood how to use impulses. In order to be able to both craft and use consumables and also upgrade stats, I binded a key for EACH process. That’s right. If you happen to smash the keyboard in anger, you could possibly lose all your skill points and materials and use every consumable at the same time. In order to stop this from happening, the F10 key serves as an unlock/lock feature that locks the keys from being used when you are not currently trying to craft, use, or upgrade. Remember: all information is displayed in the console. Once you click the F10 key to unlock, you can complete any process by clicking another key. To upgrade Vitality, click ‘U’. To upgrade Defense, click ‘O’. To upgrade Agility, click ‘P’. To craft Second Chance, click ‘G’. To use Second Chance, click ‘H’. To craft Killheal, click ‘J’. To use Killheal, click ‘K’. To craft Triple Speed, click ‘L’. To use Triple Speed, click ‘X’. To craft Double Damage, click ‘V’. To use Double Damage, click ‘B’. To craft No Damage, click ‘N’. To use No Damage, click ‘M’. I’m not going to lie, it’s pretty confusing but it works, which is the most important thing of course. Once you are done, feel free to lock the keys with F10 before you start going about the game. Or not if you want to live on the wild side. 
To make things easier, I added commands “give exp”, “give gold”, and “give silver”. The “give exp” command will level you up instantly. The “give gold” and “give silver” commands will give you 5 pieces of the given material. 
I also made the jump height slightly higher, made the default speed slightly faster, and lowered the respawn delay for ease of use. 
To set up the mod, take the Mod folder in the git repository and put it into your Quake 4 directory in your Steam files. 
As of the most recent update, the game only has 2 of the deliverables that I was supposed to deliver: the XP system and the 5 craftable consumables. 
